Doc Updates Related to Source Tracked Org Changes (#4764)
forcedotcom/salesforcedx-vscode: docs/_articles/en/user-guide/metadata-operations.md

---
title: Metadata Operations
lang: en
---

## Source Diff

> The Source Diff command allows you to diff metadata types against your default org. This feature makes it easier to visualize the changes between files in your local project and the metadata in your org. You can look at diffs for an individual file or directory.

Reviewer: "diff metadata types" is a bit slangy. I suggest you tighten the whole thing up. Ex:
The Source Diff command makes it easy to visual the changes between files in your local project and the metadata in your org. You can look at diffs...

### Usage
Menu options `SFDX: Diff File Against Org` and `SFDX: Diff Folder Against Org` appear when you right-click a file or folder.  

![Source Diff command](../../../images/source_diff.png)

> You can then view individual file diffs side by side. If a file doesn’t exist locally or in the Org, it will not show up in the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then view individual file diffs side-by-side. If a file doesn’t exist locally or in the org, it doesn't show up in the list.
```

## Retrieve Source

> Org Development model doesn’t automatically track changes to your org, so be sure to keep track of the changes you retrieve. Retrieving source from an org overwrites the local versions of the source files.

Reviewer: I would substitute "org development model" with what's truly going on. The "model" itself doesn't do anything. So are you trying to say?
If you're using a non-source-tracked org, VS Code doesn't automatically track changes, so you have to track the changes you retrieve manually.

Author: great point! thanks! I'l make that update.

> For non-source-tracked orgs, VS Code doesn’t automatically track changes to your org, so be sure to keep track of the changes you retrieve. Retrieving source from an org overwrites the local versions of the source files unless you have conflict detection turned on. See [Detect Conflicts](./en/user-guide/detect-conflicts).

Reviewer 2: There is no conflict detection on retrieve operations.  There is currently a suggestion in the docs to run the diff commands before retrieving.  

```suggestion
For non-source-tracked orgs, VS Code doesn’t automatically track changes to your org, so be sure to keep track of the changes you retrieve. Retrieving source from an org overwrites the local versions of the source files.
```

> Org Development model doesn’t automatically track changes to your org, so be sure to keep track of the changes you retrieve. Retrieving source from an org overwrites the local versions of the source files. When you retrieve source from an org, you could enable conflict detection between the org and the local metadata. See [Detect Conflicts](./en/user-guide/detect-conflicts).

Reviewer 2: Conflict detection is deploy-only so this should prob be removed:

> When you retrieve source from an org, you could enable conflict detection between the org and the local metadata. See [Detect Conflicts](./en/user-guide/detect-conflicts).

Author: Done. Thanks for catching that.

![Retrieve source from org](./images/retrieve-source-from-org.png)

You can retrieve source for a manifest, source files, directories, or folders:

- Manifest
  - In VS Code explorer or editor, right-click a manifest file and select **SFDX: Retrieve Source in Manifest from Org**.
  - With a manifest file open in the editor, open the Command Palette and run **SFDX: Retrieve Source in Manifest from Org**.
- Source File or Directory
  - In VS Code explorer, right-click a source file or a directory and select **SFDX: Retrieve Source from Org**.
  - With a source file open in the editor, right-click in the editing pane and select **SFDX: Retrieve This Source from Org**.
  - With a source file open in the editor, open the Command Palette and run **SFDX: Retrieve This Source from Org**.

> When you select an item to retrieve source, only the existing nested items in the directory structure are retrieved. For example, if you retrieve source for the `classes` folder, the Apex classes that **currently exist in that directory** are retrieved. The command doesn’t retrieve all the Apex classes in the org; it only updates the classes that already exist in the folder. If you want to retrieve a new Apex class, add that class (or all Apex classes) to a `package.xml` file and retrieve source using the manifest file. You could also use a terminal to run `sfdx force:source:retrieve --metadata ApexClass:YourApexClass`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you select an item to retrieve source, only the existing nested items in the directory structure are retrieved. For example, if you retrieve source for the `classes` folder, the Apex classes that **currently exist in that directory** are retrieved. The command doesn’t retrieve all the Apex classes in the org; it updates only the classes that already exist in the folder. To retrieve a new Apex class, add that class (or all Apex classes) to a `package.xml` file and retrieve the source using the manifest file. You could also use a terminal to run `sfdx force:source:retrieve --metadata ApexClass:YourApexClass`.
```

![Deploy source to org](./images/deploy-source-to-org.png)

You can deploy source of a manifest, source files, directories, or folders:

- Manifest
  - In VS Code explorer or editor, right-click a manifest file and select **SFDX: Deploy Source in Manifest in Org**.
  - With a manifest file open in the editor, open the Command Palette and run **SFDX: Deploy Source in Manifest in Org**.
- Source File or Directory
- In VS Code explorer, right-click single or multi-selected source files or directories and select **SFDX: Deploy Source to Org**.
- With a source file open in the editor, right-click in the editing pane and select **SFDX: Deploy This Source File to Org**.
- With a source file open in the editor, open the command palette and run **SFDX: Deploy This Source File to Org**.

## Delete Source

You can delete source from your project and from your org.

- In the VS Code explorer, right-click a source file or a directory and select **SFDX: Delete from Project and Org**.
- With a source file open in the editor, right-click the file and select **SFDX: Delete This from Project and Org**.

> - With a source file open in the editor, open the Command Palette and run **SFDX: Delete from Project and Org**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- With a source file open in the editor, open the Command Palette and run **SFDX: Delete This from Project and Org**.
```

---
title: Metadata Operations
lang: en
---
## Overview

> Say you want to change an existing Apex class or add a custom object to your production org. You first make and test these changes in a scratch org, check for conflicts, and then deploy the changes to another org for your team to access them. This ability to move changes between different Salesforce development environments such as scratch orgs and sandboxes, for various stages of testing before launching into production, is key to Salesforce development. Use these metadata operations to deploy your local changes to an org as a part of your ALM process. With conflict detection turned on, you don't have to worry about accidentally overwriting others' changes in the org. You can track changes by easily viewing changes between your local files and your default org at any time. If you’re working in a team, you can retrieve the latest changes in your org on to your local Salesforce project. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This ability to move changes between different Salesforce development environments such as scratch orgs and sandboxes, for various stages of testing before launching into production, is key to Salesforce development. 
```
minor nit - this sentence has a ton of great info that's important to highlight, but it's a bit long so I'm getting a little lost. Could we rephrase or break it up a bit?

Reviewer 3: oops not suggesting we delete the other sentences lol
